ablutophobia:a fear of bathing or washing.	
accutane:synthetic version of vitamin .
active ingredient:the ingredient in a product or drug that does what the product or drug is designed to do.
aesthetician:a professional who gives skin, hair, and other beauty treatments.
age spots:flat brown-black spots that usually occur in sun-exposed areas of the body.
air bags:a safety device installed in vehicles that are designed to inflate rapidly in the event of a collision and protect the passengers from impact with the vehicle?s structure.
alice in wonderland syndromelisten:distorted perception in which objects -- including your own body -- seem to shift in size or shape.
alien hand syndrome:a condition in which you lose control of your hand (or other limb) and it seems to have a will of its own.
aloe vera gel:a colorless gel obtained from the the leaves of the aloe plant alpha-hydroxy acids.
alpha-hydroxy acids:fruit-derived acids used on skin to exfoliate, trap moisture and trigger collagen formation.
amimia:being unable to use or understand hand gestures or body language.
amino acids:the building blocks of proteins.
amniotic fluid:the fluid bathing the fetus and serving as a shock absorber.
anhidrosis:not being able to sweat.
animal extracts:extracts derived from animal tissues or organs for use in various products.
ankyloglossia :also called "tongue tie," it's when your tongue is partly fused to the bottom of your mouth.
antioxidants: any substance that reduces oxidative damage (damage due to oxygen) such as that caused by free radicals.
antophobia:fear of flowers.
argyria:blue-gray skin caused by swallowing too much silver, often from dietary supplements.
aromatherapy:a form of alternative and complementary medicine based on the use of fragrant "essential" oils from the flowers, leaves, bark, branches, rind or roots of plants with purported healing properties. the oils are mixed with another substance (such as oil, alcohol, or lotion) and then put on the skin, sprayed in the air, or inhaled.
asana:yoga postures or poses.
astereognosis:a sensory disorder in which you can't recognize familiar objects -- like a pencil or a key -- by touch alone.
autophagia:wanting to hurt yourself by biting or eating your own flesh.
 ayurveda:an ancient hindu health and medical tradition that originated in india.
baby blue:sadness that a new mother may feel soon after her baby is born; the feelings are usually temporary.
back labor:pain in the lower back that a woman may feel when she is in labor.
ballistic stretching:a warm-up stretching exercise that involves bouncing. it is not recommended because it can cause muscle tears and soreness.
balloon urethroplasty: treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). during this nonsurgical procedure, an inflatable balloon is inserted into the prostate. when inflated, it relieves pressure on the urethra (the canal that carries urine outside the body) to improve urine flow.
barbell: a bar that is used for weight lifing; weighted plates or discs can be attached on each end.
barium:a substance that, when swallowed or given rectally as an enema, makes the digestive tract visible on x-rays.
barrier methods: methods of birth control that block sperm from entering the uterus.
baste:a practice used to moisten meats during cooking; melted butter or pan drippings are spread or spooned over the meat at various intervals.
bathing trunk nevus:a large, usually hairy birthmark that can look like a swimsuit, covering the thighs and belly.
beaver fever:an infection spread by parasites through water. also called giardiasis. common in day cares, despite the absence of beavers.
benign prostatic hyperplasia:this condition involves growth of benign (noncancerous) tissue inside the prostate, and often causes difficulty in urinating.
blackheads:small, dark spots (about the size of a pinhead) caused by a small plug in the opening of a follicle (pore).
blanch:a cooking practice that involves steaming or scalding food briefly (parboiling). blanching of the skin occurs when the skin becomes white or pale in appearance. blanching of the skin typically indicates a temporary obstruction of blood flow. if you press gently on an area of your skin, it likely turns lighter before resuming its natural color.
blaschko's lines:a system of lines on the surface of the human body, representing developmental growth pattern of the skin. certain nevi are distributed along these lines.
blend:to thoroughly mix ingredients (as in a recipe).
blennophobia:fear of slime.
bloodletting:removing blood to treat conditions like excess iron. medieval doctors did it, and modern ones still do.
board-lasted:a performance improvement made in walking and running shoes. a board-lasted shoe has cardboard inserted in the midsole to make the shoe more stable and less flexible, and to compensate for differences in a person's gait (under- or over-pronation).
body dysmorphic disorder:an unhealthy obsession with a slight or imagined physical flaw, like a crooked smile or a bump on the nose.
body fat:the human body is made up of bones, muscles, organs, water -- and fat. in weight loss measurements, the term "body fat" refers to the percentage of body mass that is only fat.       
body integrity identity disorder:a desire of disability through amputation or paralysis
bogart-bacall syndrome:bogart-bacall syndrome (bbs) is a voice disorder that is caused by abuse or overuse of the vocal cords. symptoms are chiefly an unnaturally deep or rough voice, and vocal fatigue.
bondage and discipline:a type of sexual fetish that involves consensual sexual acts, including restraint and training of a submissive partner, for the purpose of inflicting pain, humiliation, and/or punishment.
booster seat:a seat which raises the child high enough to make sure the car's seat belt is positioned properly over the shoulder.
borborygmi:intestinal noise caused by the movement of gas and fluid, often referred to as a growling stomach.
 botanicals:plant or plant part valued for its medicinal or therapeutic properties, flavor, and/or scent.
botfly infestation:a lump caused by botfly larvae growing under the skin. without treatment, the larvae will eventually crawl out.
botox:a substance derived from botulinum toxin that works by preventing nerve impulses from reaching the muscle, causing the muscle to relax.
braise:a cooking practice that involves browning meat or vegetables, then cooking them at low heat in a small quantity of liquid, with the pan covered.
braxton-hicks contractions:these feel like labor pains, but are not. they are considered "false labor."
braxton-hicks contractions:these feel like labor pains, but are not. they are considered "false labor."
breast self-examination:involves checking your breasts to help detect any changes in or problems with the breasts.
broil:this technique involves cooking meat or vegetables using intense radiant heat, as when using a grill or under a high-heat oven broiler.
broken heart syndrome:a temporary heart condition that's often brought on by stressful situations, such as the death of a loved one.
brown spots:these spots of skin pigment (melanin) develop from long-term sun exposure. they are sometimes refererd to as liver or age spots.
bruxism:clenching your jaw or grinding your teeth to excess.
bubo:a swollen, painful lymph node under the arm or near the neck or groin that's a main symptom of bubonic plague.
burning mouth syndrome:just like it sounds, it's searing oral pain, but without any obvious cause
 cancer overview:cancer, also called malignancy, is an abnormal growth of cells. there are more than 100 types of cancer, including breast cancer, skin cancer, lung cancer, colon cancer, prostate cancer, and lymphoma. symptoms vary depending on the type. cancer treatment may include chemotherapy, radiation, and/or surgery.
carpal tunnel overview:carpal tunnel syndrome causes pain, tingling, and numbness in your hand from pressure on the median nerve in your wrist. illnesses, pregnancy, and obesity can cause carpal tunnel syndrome. rest and exercises may help relieve symptoms.
cabal:a variation of the word "kabbalah," referring to a system of jewish teachings and mysticism
cabbage leaf treatment:used on breastfeeding women, the breasts are covered with cold cabbage leaves to reduce painful swelling.
calluses:a thickened and hardened area of skin or soft tissue caused by continuous friction or pressure, often found on the foot, but can occur anywhere on the body. it can also refer to the bony healing tissue found at the ends of broken bone.
cadence:the beat, time or measure of a rhythmic movement or activity
calendula:a yellow-flowered herb used to obtain extracts for anti-inflammatory products. the extract is used to soothe sensitive skin and reduce puffiness.
childhood onset fluency disorder:a stutter or stammer that starts when you're a kid.
contraceptive foam:foam that kills sperm.
clairaudience:an ability to hear sounds beyond the normal range.
clairvoyant:an ability to "see" objects or events that are not perceived by using the five senses.
clarify:a food preparation technique, it involves gentle heating to remove impurities and create a clear liquid. butter is often clarified.
clarifying shampoo:an acidic component (like lemon juice) in the shampoo helps remove buildup from hair products.
cocoa butter:a pale-yellow, edible vegetable fat extracted from the cocoa bean. it is used to make chocolate, as well as some ointments, toiletries, and pharmaceuticals.
cold urticarial:an allergy to the cold. your skin might break out in hives after touching snow or eating ice cream.
colorectal cancer:cancer of the colon and/or rectum.
combined oral contraceptives:also called oral contraceptives or just the "pill", this method combines the hormones estrogen and progestin to prevent ovulation.
complex carbohydrates:cone biopsy:surgery to remove a cone-shaped piece of tissue from the cervix and cervical canal. may be used to diagnose or treat a cervical condition.
cold and flu overview:the common cold, including chest cold and head cold, and seasonal flu are caused by viruses. use over-the-counter cold medications to relieve symptoms including sore throat, runny nose, congestion, and cough. flu symptoms are similar, but include fever, headache and muscle soreness. see a doctor who may prescribe antiviral medications relenza or tamiflu.
hyperlipoproteinemia type iii:it is possible that the main title of the report hyperlipoproteinemia type iii is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
chordoma:it is possible that the main title of the report chordoma is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
cytomegalovirus infection:it is possible that the main title of the report cytomegalovirus infection is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report
cleidocranial dysplasia:it is possible that the main title of the report cleidocranial dysplasia is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
campomelic syndrome:it is possible that the main title of the report campomelic syndrome is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
child care options:you love your child, but you can't always be with her. the idea of leaving your toddler with a new person may fill you with dread, but finding a babysitter or child care center doesn't have to be a scary experience.
cohen syndrome:it is possible that the main title of the report cohen syndrome is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
 dengue fever:it is possible that the main title of the report dengue fever is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
diabetes overview:diabetes is a number of diseases that involve problems with the hormone insulin. normally, the pancreas (an organ behind the stomach) releases insulin to help your body store and use the sugar and fat from the food you eat. diabetes can occur when the pancreas produces very little or no insulin, or when the body does not respond appropriately to insulin. as yet, there is no cure. people with diabetes need to manage their disease to stay healthy.
dystrophy, myotonic:it is possible that the main title of the report dystrophy, myotonic is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
dyggve melchior clausen syndrome:it is possible that the main title of the report dyggve melchior clausen syndrome is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome:it is possible that the main title of the report opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
ichthyosis:it is possible that the main title of the report ichthyosis is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
ichthyosis, sj?gren larsson syndrome:it is possible that the main title of the report ichthyosis, sj?gren larsson syndrome is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
dandruff: learn the basics:dandruff -- those dry, white flakes of skin you brush off your collar or shoulders -- is harmless. but it can be embarrassing and itchy. dandruff really isn't about your hair, or how often you wash it. instead, it's about the skin on your scalp. 
dengue fever:it is possible that the main title of the report dengue fever is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
dandy walker malformation:it is possible that the main title of the report dandy walker malformation is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
dash diet and high blood pressure:one of the steps your doctor may recommend to lower your high blood pressure is to start using the dash diet.dash stands for dietary approaches to stop hypertension. the diet is simple:
microvillus inclusion disease:it is possible that the main title of the report microvillus inclusion disease is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
de barsy syndrome:it is possible that the main title of the report de barsy syndrome is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
dvt:deep vein thrombosis, or dvt, is caused by a blood clot in a deep vein and can be life-threatening. symptoms may include swelling, pain, and tenderness, often in the legs. risk factors include immobility, hormone therapy, and pregnancy. 
ear infections:ear infections occur when a cold, throat infection, or allergy attack causes fluid to become trapped in the middle ear. mostly affecting children, symptoms may include earaches and thick, yellow fluid coming from the ears. 
eating disorders:eating disorders are a group of conditions marked by an unhealthy relationship with food. the three main types are anorexia, bulimia and binge eating disorder. eating disorders are a serious medical problem that can have long-term health consequences if left untreated.
eczema:eczema symptoms include itchy, red, and dry skin caused by inflammation. it’s most commonly found in children, although adults can get it. it is also called atopic dermatitis and is treated with oral medications, steroid creams and light therapy .
endometriosis overview:endometriosis is the development of uterine-lining tissue outside the uterus. symptoms may include abdominal pain, heavy periods, and infertility. treatment options include pain relievers, hormones, and surgery
epilepsy overview:epilepsy is a group of related disorders characterized by a tendency for recurrent seizures. there are different types of epilepsy and seizures. epilepsy drugs are prescribed to control seizures, and rarely surgery is necessary if medications are ineffective.
erectile dysfunction:erectile dysfunction, or ed, is the inability to achieve or sustain an erection suitable for sexual intercourse. causes include medications, chronic illnesses, poor blood flow to the penis, drinking too much alcohol, or being too tired. 
eye health overview:regular eye exams reveal vision problems like nearsightedness, farsightedness, presbyopia, and astigmatism. your doctor may prescribe glasses or contact lenses. eye conditions include pinkeye, blepharitis, glaucoma, cataracts, and macular degeneration.
 ear, patella, short stature syndrome:it is possible that the main title of the report ear, patella, short stature syndrome is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
amniotic band syndrome:it is possible that the main title of the report amniotic band syndrome is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
prune belly syndrome:it is possible that the main title of the report prune belly syndrome is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
subacute sclerosing panencephalitis:it is possible that the main title of the report subacute sclerosing panencephalitis is not the name you expected. please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
echolalia:when a person automatically -- and without meaning to -- repeats what someone else just said.
echopraxia:imitating someone else's movements without intending to. often a symptom of tourette's syndrome.
electrical burns:burns that can occur when a person is directly exposed to an electrical current.
elephantiasis:usually caused by parasites, this disease can make your limbs or genitals swell hugely.
eosinophilic esophagitis:a condition in which an allergy -- usually to food -- causes the esophagus to swell, making it hard to swallow.
epidermodysplasia verruciformis:a rare, inherited disorder that predisposes patients to widespread human papillomavirus (hpv) infection of the skin. it causes rough, tree bark-like patches of skin, especially on the hands and feet.
epistaxis:a nosebleed.
equine therapy:horseback riding as physical or mental therapy, used for conditions ranging from autism to eating disorders.
eructation:a burp.
estrogen replacement:a therapy that uses estrogen hormones to treat common symptoms, such as hot flashes and vaginal dryness, that occur during menopause and aging. doctors can prescribe it during or after menopause.
eupnea:the word for normal, healthy breathing.
expectant management or therapy:the term expectant management is usually defined as watchful waiting or close monitoring by a physician instead of immediate treatment.
external obliques:these are abdominal muscles located on both sides of the torso.
external urethral:sphincter muscle-this muscle surrounds the urethra, the tube that carries urine from the bladder and outside the body.
eyelid myokymia:eyelid twitches that usually go away on their own.
exploding head syndrome:a rare sleep disorder that causes the subject to believe they have heard an explosion, seemingly originating from inside the head, which startles the subject to wake.
fallopian tubes:tubes on each side of the uterus through which an egg moves from the ovaries to the uterus.
fartlek:a form of training that combines continuous and interval training; stresses both the aerobic and anaerobic energy pathways.
fecal occult blood test:a test to check for hidden blood in stool. (fecal refers to stool. occult means hidden.)
female condom:a device usually made of latex (a type of rubber), plastic or animal membrane that is used for birth control and to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. female condoms are inserted into the vagina. the closed end of the condom covers the cervix, and the open end covers the area around the opening of the vagina.
fetal monitoring:monitor used to listen to and record the fetal heartbeat before and during labor. external monitoring means through the mother's abdomen. internal monitoring is through the mother's vagina.
fibrocystic breasts:common, benign (non-cancerous) changes in the tissues of the breast.
fibroids:benign tumors, especially of the uterine wall, that consist of fibrous and muscular tissue.
fish odor syndrome:a metabolism problem that can make your sweat and breath smell like rotten fish.
five elements:in eastern philosophy, the five elements are wood, fire, earth, metal, and water.
flexibility:able to yield to influence: people can be adaptable; objects can be flexed or bent without breaking. flexibility in fitness is the ability to move joints through a range of motion.
food allergy:when your immune system mistakes something in food as harmful and attacks it. symptoms may include digestive problems, skin rash, hives, shortness of breath, chest pain, sudden drop in blood pressure, and/or trouble swallowing or breathing.
food combining:food combining (also known as trophology) is a term for a nutritional approach that advocates specific combinations of foods as central to good health and weight loss (such as not mixing carbohydrate-rich foods and protein-rich foods in the same meal).
foreign accent syndrome:suddenly starting to talk with an accent. it may develop after a blow to the head.
formication:the sensation that insects are crawling on your skin.
fractures:broken bones or cartilage.
free weights:barbells and dumbbells are free weights; exercise machines are not.
fregoli delusion:the belief that many different people are actually one person who changes shape or uses disguises.
frotteur:a person who gets turned on by rubbing up against someone else -- usually an unsuspecting stranger in a crowded place.
fry:cooking in a frying pan or flat skillet; fat is used in frying food.
functional incontinence:incontinence which occurs when people have mental or physical problems that keep them from reaching a toilet.
fundal height:the height of the top of the uterus (fundus) in pregnancy.
fregoli delusion:the belief that many different people are actually one person who changes shape or uses disguises.
foreign accent syndrome:suddenly starting to talk with an accent. it may develop after a blow to the head.
gastroenteritis:inflammation of the stomach and the intestines. can cause nausea and vomiting and/or diarrhea. gastroenteritis has numerous causes: including infectious organisms (viruses, bacteria, etc.), food poisoning, and stress.
genuphobia:fear of knees or kneeling
gephyrophobia:fear of crossing bridges
gestational diabetes:a form of diabetes that develops during pregnancy (gestation).
giant hairy nevus:a dark and often hairy birthmark that may cover a large area of the body.
gigantism:a rare condition caused by high levels of growth hormone that can make you grow up to almost 9 feet tall.
glucose:this simple sugar is the body's main fuel.
gluteus maximus:of the three gluteal muscles, the gluteus maximus is the largest muscle of the buttocks.
glycerine:this liquid is added to numerous products; among its many uses, glycerine can improve moisture-retaining propertes of skin care products.
gonorrhea:sexually transmitted disease (std) that is spread primarily by intercourse.
glucose:this simple sugar is the body's main fuel.
gluteus maximus:of the three gluteal muscles, the gluteus maximus is the largest muscle of the buttocks.
 gonorrhea:sexually transmitted disease (std) that is spread primarily by intercourse.
gourmand syndrome:usually the result of a brain injury, a sudden passion for fine dining and gourmet food.
grate:to shred foods by rubbing them against an abrasive surface or tool (like a grater).
grill:broiling, frying or toasting food on a grill or griddle.
group b strep:type of streptococcal bacteria that when found in the vagina during pregnancy, can cause serious problems for the fetus. group b strep is usually harmless in adults.
guinea worm disease:also called dracunculiasis, an infection spread by contaminated water in remote parts of africa. causes worms that eventually come out of the skin.
gynecomastia:enlargement of a male?s breast tissue, usually caused by a hormonal imbalance.
hair analysis:samples of hair are tested for dna analysis or to detect illegal drug use.
hairy tongue:a buildup of dead cells and bacteria on the tongue that can make it look black and hairy.
hallux valgus:a deformity of the foot, where the big toe is bent toward the middle of the foot, sometimes overlapping the second toe.
hamstrings:refers to the three major muscles which are located on the back of the thigh. these muscles function as flexors of the knee.
healthcare:services offered to preserve emotional and physical well-being and prevent or treat illness.
helminthic therapy:swallowing parasitic worms to treat immune-mediated diseases like chron's disease or ms.
hemicorporectomy:an operation to remove the entire lower half of the body because of serious disease or injury.
hemispherectomy:to surgically remove or disconnect half the brain. sometimes used to stop severe seizures.
herbal medicine:the practice of using medicinal herbs to promote health, prevent and/or treat disease.
herbalism:1. the study and practice of herbal medicine. 2. the business of preparing and selling herbal products.
herbology:the study and practice of using herbs for dietary purposes and for treating disease.
high-risk pregnancy:a pregnancy in which there is high probability that problems will develop.
highlighting:hair coloring technique that introduces lighter colors.
home uterine monitoring:an at-home device used to monitor a pregnant woman's uterine contractions to detect premature labor, yet avoid hospitalization. the monitor transmits data on contractions to a doctor's office for evaluation.
hormonal contraceptives:birth control methods that utilize estrogen and/or progesterone. includes birth control pills and hormone shots.
hormone creams:hormones, usually estrogen and progesterone, in cream form.
hormone replacement therapy:the use of hormones, usually estrogen and progesterone, as a therapy; often used to treat the discomforts of menopause or to replace hormones (especially estrogen) lost after menopause.
i ching:an ancient chinese book describing the taoist concepts of nature, yin and yang. this book is also called the book of changes.
iatrogenesis:when a doctor's advice or treatment inadvertently makes you sicker.
idiopathic hypersomnia:a rare sleep disorder characterized by excessive, often debilitating, daytime sleepiness, with no clear cause.
incompetent cervix:a medical condition that occurs in pregnant women when the cervical tissue weakens, which can lead to miscarriage or premature birth.
infuse:to soak in a hot liquid; tea is steeped in hot water, which allows the water to be infused with the tea's essence.
intermittent explosive disorder:when people often fly into a rage without any reason.
internal obliques:abdominal muscles that lie underneath the external oblique muscles.
internet gaming disorder:playing online games so compulsively that it interferes with school, work, or life.
intractable hiccups:hiccups that last at least a month. they can go on for decades.
intractable singultus:chronic hiccups.
intractable sneezing:constant sneezing that can last months.
intravenous pyelogram:a series of x-rays of the kidneys and bladder. the x-rays are taken after a dye that shows up on x-ray film is injected into a vein. also called ivp.
islets of langerhans:not a vacation place, but clusters of special cells in the pancreas.
jail fever:infection with typhus spread by lice. outbreaks are more common in dirty jails.
jargon aphasia:a disorder that causes people to speak only nonsense, either with made-up words or real words used incorrectly.
j.d.:juris doctor.
jerusalem syndrome:a psychological phenomenon involving obsessive religious ideas or delusions occurring in individuals visiting jerusalem.
julienne:cutting fruits or vegetables into very thin strips.
jumping frenchmen of maine:a condition that makes you leap into the air when startled. first diagnosed in french canadian lumberjacks.
kickboard:a lightweight board used by swimmers to keep the upper body afloat during leg-kicking exercises.
kirlian photography:a photographic process that supposedly records electrical discharges naturally emanating from living objects by shooting a high voltage charge through the object that is connected to a photographic plate in a darkroom.
klinefelter syndrome:klinefelter syndrome occurs when a boy is born with one or more extra x chromosomes. most males have one y and one x chromosome. having extra x chromosomes can cause a male to have some physical traits unusual for males.
knead:to use pressure (by hand or machine) to mix a flour-based recipe into a certain consistency.
koro syndrome:when men become terrified that their genitals are shrinking and may disappear.
l.ac.:licensed acupuncturist.
l.m.t:licensed massage therapist.
labia majora:part of the female external reproductive system, the labia majora are the two outer lips that are covered by pubic hair in adult women.
labia minora:apart of the female external reproductive system, the labia minora are the two inner lips that surround the opening of the vagina (the birth canal) and the urethra (the exit tube for urine.)
large for gestational age:a fetus or infant that is larger or more developed than normal for the baby's gestational age. gestational age is the common term used during pregnancy to describe how far along the pregnancy is. it is measured in weeks, from the first day of the woman's last menstrual cycle to the current date. a fetus or infant larger than expected for the age and gender, or with a birth weight above the 90th percentile, is referred to as lga (large for gestational age).
lazarus phenomenon:when people seem to come back to life after being declared dead.
laugh therapy:using laughter as a medical treatment to reduce stress, ease pain, boost energy, and strengthen your immune system.
laying on of hands:a practice used by faith healers to help restore a person's health.
leech therapy:mostly used in plastic surgery and other microsurgery. the leeches secrete peptides and proteins that work to prevent blood clots. this keeps blood flowing to wounds to help them heal.
let down reflex:a physiological process that draws milk into the breast milk ducts, so that an infant can nurse.
limbal dermoid:a benign cyst on the eye that can grow cartilage, hair, teeth, and even brain tissue.
let down reflex:a physiological process that draws milk into the breast milk ducts, so that an infant can nurse.
loofah:a dried portion of the loofa fruit; a loofah is used as a sponge or filter.
locking clip:this is part of a car's seatbelt locking mechanism.
loop electrosurgical excision procedure:a technique that uses electric current passed through a thin wire loop to remove abnormal. 
low birth weight:the category of babies weighing less than 2500 grams at birth
lowlights:hair coloring technique that introduces darker colors.
life energy:a subtle "force" referred to in eastern philosophies as chi or prana; life energy is the inner energy that is said to promote healing, happiness, and inner peace.
lymph nodes:small, bean-shaped structures found throughout the body. lymph nodes produce and store infection-fighting cells.
mad hatter's disease:mercury poisoning that leaves you angry and confused. named after factory hatmakers who breathed in mercury fumes.
maggot therapy:putting live maggots on hard-to-heal wounds to help get rid of dead tissue.
magnetic resonance imaging:also known as mri. a test that produces high-quality images of the body's internal structures without the use of x-rays. mri uses a large magnet, radio waves, and a computer to produce these images.
maple syrup urine disease:a genetic condition in which the body can't process certain proteins. it causes sweet-smelling pee.
marfan syndrome:a genetic disorder that causes increased height, very flexible joints, flat feet, and other symptoms.
massage therapy:use of massage as a therapeutic modality.
medical student syndrome:when healthy students become convinced that they have the diseases they're studying.
microsurgical fertilization:a procedure in which the sperm is injected directly into the egg to ensure fertilization.
micturition syncope:fainting before, during, or after peeing.
mineral oil:a clear petroleum-based oil used in many cosmetics.
mithridatism:an ancient way to prevent poisoning by taking controlled but higher and higher doses of the same poison over time.
mittelschmerz: pelvic pain when an egg is released from the ovary, about halfway between a woman's cycles. the word comes from the german words for "middle" and "pain."
moebius syndrome:a rare nerve disorder making it impossible to move your face, smile, frown, or blink.
mongolian spots: dark, flat spots that some infants have on their lower backs and buttocks. the spots are present at birth, but usually disapear within a few years.
mono-diet:diet that consists of only one type of food.
morcellator : a tool that cuts up and removes organs or tumors during the so-called band-aid surgeries that have only tiny incisions.
morning-after pills: a form of birth control that may be used by women after having unprotected sex. two doses of hormone pills are taken in one day 12 hours apart within 72 hours of unprotected sex.
moulding: the change in a baby’s head shape after it travels through the birth canal.
mucophagy:eating boogers.
mucus plug  : the secretions produced in the cervix before labor begins.
multiple semen analysis: male fertility testing: two or more semen samples must be collected and tested on separate days.
musical ear syndrome:a condition in which people with hearing loss believe they "hear" phantom music, singing, and other sounds.
munchausen's syndrome: a mental illness in which people insist they're sick but aren't. they may even hurt themselves to fake symptoms.
naprapathy:chiropractic technique: manipulating joints, muscles, and ligaments to treat disease.
narcolepsy: a sleep disorder that can make you fall sound asleep suddenly, even in the middle of talking or eating.
natural: anything that occurs in nature or is produced naturally; it is not artificial, synthetic, or manufactured.
necrotizing fasciitis: also known as flesh-eating disease; a serious infection that destroys tissue.
nonaccredited  : not accredited: describes an institution that does not have official authorization, approval, or credentials. educational institutions, hospitals, and other institutions seek accreditation to demonstrate that they meet specific standards.
onychophagia:nail-biting.
open faced: food preparation technique: with an open-faced sandwich, the top layer is "open" -- i.e., not covered with orchiectomy.
ornithophobia:fear of birds.
.
orthomolecular medicine:a medical practice based on providing the body with optimal amounts of substances natural to the body, to optimize health or to treat disease.
orthorexia:an eating disorder that makes you obsessed with eating only unprocessed, organic, or other "pure" foods.
osseointegration:when bone grows around, attaches to, and secures something inserted in your body, like an artificial joint or a tooth.
otorrhea:any discharge that comes out of your ear.
outer ear:external ear.
overpronation:condition involving flattened foot arches, which increases risk of injury to bone or muscle.
osteopuncture:form of acupuncture in which the needle penetrates the periosteum (membrane that covers bone).
pap testsmear:a screening test in which a sample of cells is taken from a woman's cervix. the test is used to detect changes in the cells of the cervix.
parboil:boiling food for a brief time; partially boiling food to cook it.
pareidolia:seeing a pattern where there isn't one, like seeing a "face" on a potato chip or a tree trunk.
parry-romberg syndrome:a rare disorder that causes half the face to shrink.
pathological generosity:result of a brain injury that makes people recklessly generous, even at the cost of causing money problems for themselves.
peak flow monitoring:monitoring that measures how fast a person can breath out (exhale) air. it is one of many tests that measure the how well your airways work.
pectorals:refers to the broad band of muscles that extend across the chest.
pelvic inflammatory disease:an infection of the female reproductive organs usually contracted through sexual. 
penile augmentation:surgery or other procedures to increase the length or width of a man's penis.
perceived exertion:how hard one feels one is working during exercise.
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty:an operation for enlarging a narrowed vascular lumen by using a cather fitted with a tiny baloon to open up a blocked artery in the heart.
persistent genital arousal syndrome:feeling constantly aroused without wanting to be. some women with it orgasm dozens of times a day.
personal flotation device:device made to keep people afloat.
phantosmia:hallucinating smells.
pneumonoultra-microscopicsili-covolcanokoniosis:a lung disease caused by breathing in ash and dust.
poach:to boil or simmer in a liquid.
qi:a chinese term used to describe one's vital energy or life force.
quadrille:describes a process of marking a crisscross pattern of lines onto the surface of grilled or broiled food.
quench:to put out; reduce; to satisfy.
radical prostatectomy:form of prostatectomy that involves the complete removal of the prostate gland.
rapunzel syndrome:a hairball in the gut caused by chewing and swallowing hair again and again. the name comes from the long-haired fairy-tale maiden.
rectal ultrasound:a test in which ultrasound is used to evaluate the prostate. ultrasound involves the use of sound waves to form an image of internal organs.
recumbent bike:distinguished from an upright bike by the reclined position of the rider.
reduplicative paramnesia:the delusion that you're in an exact copy of a familiar place, like your home, instead of the original
repetition:an instance of performing an act again.

respiratory distress syndrome:one of the most common lung disorders in premature infants; causes increasing difficulty in breathing.
retifism:having a shoe fetish.
resistive cuffs and boots:foam devices that can be placed on the ankles and/or wrists to create extra resistance for water exercises.
sauté:a cooking term that refers to lightly frying in fat in a shallow open pan.
scurvy:weakness, pale skin, and other symptoms caused by lack of vitamin c. once common in sailors, hence the phrase, "scurvy pirate."
sexsomnia:like sleepwalking, but with sex instead of walking. if it happens to you, you probably won't remember it the next day.
shea butter:an emollient.
sift:to put through a straining device in order to separate fine from coarse particles.
silicones:popular in hair styling products, silicones are nonreactive substances derived from silica or sand.
simmer:a cooking term that refers to cooking gently, just at or below the boiling point.
shred:to cut or pull food apart into thin strips.
steam:a process of cooking food by setting it above a hot, boiling liquid, and letting the steam cook the food.
static stretch:holding a stretch.
straight last:a type of symmetrical shoe construction that is good for walkers who do not overpronate .
sperm disorders:problems with the production and maturation of sperm.
stratum corneum:refers to the outermost layer of the epidermis, which is itself the outer layer of the skin. 
stress fractures:a fracture caused by repetitive stress, as may occur in sports, strenuous exercise, or heavy physical labor.
stress incontinence:type of urinary incontinence characterized by loss of urine following some sudden strain on the body such as coughing or laughing.
subtle energy:high frequency energy outside of the known spectrum.
supreme:ultimate..
small for gestational age:a fetus or infant is smaller in size than is expected for the baby's gender, genetic heritage, and gestational age.
transgender:one who appears as, wishes to become, or has undergone surgery to become a member of the opposite sex.
tardive dyskinesia:a side effect of antipsychotic drugs, this condition causes random movements, like grimacing and hip swaying.
target heart rate:the desired heart rate during exercise (usually expressed as a percentage range of the maximum heart rate)
tether:a rope, chain, or similar restraint for holding one in place, allowing a small area in which one can move about.
thermal burns:thermal burns occur when hot metals, scalding liquids, steam, or flames come in contact with your skin.
tofu:popular soy protein food product; a soybean curd cake.
transrectal ultrasound of the prostate:a test procedure in which an ultrasound probe is inserted in the rectum to provide images of the prostate.
transurethral surgery:surgery performed with a special instrument inserted through the urethra.
trench mouth:also known as ulcerative gingivitis (inflammation of the gums). in world war i, it was common among soldiers living in trenches.
trepanation:drilling a hole in the skull for medical or mystical purposes. the oldest known surgery and popular with stone age healers.
trichoptilosis:split ends.
trichotillomania:a disorder that makes you obsessively pull out your hair and sometimes eat it.
triskaidekaphobia:fear of the number 13.
th.d:doctor of theology.
tcm:traditional chinese medicine.
ultrasounds:the use of sound waves to form an image of internal organs.
uncombable hair syndrome:a rare disorder that causes wild hair that can't possibly be combed flat.
underpronation:a condition in which the foot does not roll inward appropriately.
uner tan syndrome:a neurological or developmental condition that may cause people to walk on all fours.
urinary incontinence:inability to control the flow of urine from the bladder.
unleavened:made without a leavening agent, such as yeast.
urine flow study:a test to measure how well the urine is flowing.
uterus didelphys:when a woman has two wombs. women may not know they have it until they get pregnant.
uv light:ultraviolet light; invisible rays that are part of the energy that comes from the sun, can burn the skin, and cause skin cancer.
vacuum extraction:a process utilizing a suction device that is attached to the baby's head to help bring the baby out of the birth canal during labor.
vaginal birth after cesarean:vaginal delivery after having had a cesarean section previously.
valley fever:infection with a fungus native to the southwest that causes flu-like symptoms.
vandyke:a cooking term that refers to cutting zigzags in the edges of fruit and vegetables halves to be used as a garnish.
veganism:the practice of avoiding the ingestion or use of animal products.
verbal dysdecorum:losing the ability to censor yourself and saying rude, mean, or inappropriate things.
vibration white finger:nerve damage from using vibrating machinery that turns fingers white when cold or wet.
vo2 max:the highest volume of oxygen one can consume during exercise.
vulvodynia:chronic, unexplained pain in the vulva.
warm-up:an essential component of an exercise regimen; involves stretching and gradually increasing the level of the workout's intensity.
weight-bearing exercises:exercise during which the body works against the force of gravity and the feet and legs carry a person's weight.
werewolf syndrome:called hypertrichosis, it causes thick hair to grow all over the body and face. 
whisk:a cooking term that refers to beating ingredients together until smooth, using a special tool called a whisk.
whip:a cooking term that refers to beating into a froth or foam consistency.
white-coat hypertension:high blood pressure that develops only at the doctor's office
wolman disease:a condition that stops the body from breaking down certain fats. instead, they build up in other parts of the body.
xerostomia:dry mouth.
"xxx, xxxx, 10x":chromosomal abnormalities of the x chromosome.
xeroderma pigmentosum:an extreme response to sunlight--people may burn or blister after only seconds of sun exposure.
yakitori:cooking term that refers to a dish of bite-sized chicken pieces that are marinated and grilled on skewers.
yeast infection:infection of the vagina caused by one of the many species of fungus called candida. a change in the chemical balance in the vagina allows the fungus to grow too rapidly and cause symptoms.
Yoga:a way of life that includes ethical precepts, dietary prescriptions, and physical exercise.
Zest:citrus fruit rind (such as lemon rind) used as a flavoring.
Zoonosis:when a disease, like rabies, spreads from an animal to a human. reverse zoonosis: when a disease spreads from a human to an animal.
